Hi there, welcome to
this video where we
are going to learn
about disinformation.
The goal of the
presentation is to
help you to
understand what
disinformation is,
what motivates people
to do it, and how to
recognise it. In the
video, firstly, we
will look at what
disinformation is,
then we will look at
some examples of
disinformation and
why it spreads so
easily. What is
disinformation?
Disinformation is
false or misleading
information that's
deliberately created
and spread to deceive
people. It is not
just getting facts
wrong by accident,
but purposefully
creating or sharing
false information to
manipulate, confuse
or mislead. This is
different from
misinformation, which
is false information
spread without
malicious intent –
someone might
genuinely believe
something incorrect
and share it. It is
also different from
mail information,
which involves
sharing genuine
information but with
the intent to cause
harm, like leaking
private documents to
embarrass someone.
Some common examples
of disinformation
include made-up news
stories, images or
videos shared as
authentic, but which
have been changed.
Fake social media
accounts spreading
propaganda,
misleading statistics
taken out of context,
conspiracy theories
designed to sow
confusion.
Disinformation can
spread rapidly,
especially on social
media, because people
often share content
without checking its
accuracy. It can be
about any topic –
health, politics,
science, current
events – and can have
real-world
consequences when
people make decisions
based on false
information. The
challenge with
disinformation is
that it's not always
easy to identify, and
correcting it can be
difficult once it's
widely circulated.
People tend to
remember the initial
false claim even
after seeing a
correction.
Disinformation is
often created to
exploit emotions like
fear or outrage,
making it more likely
to spread. Common
goals behind
disinformation
include influencing
elections,
undermining trust in
institutions like
businesses or even
schools, manipulating
stock markets,
discrediting
opponents, or
creating social
division. The
internet and social
media have made it
both easier to create
convincing
disinformation and to
spread it rapidly to
large audiences.